{"title" : "How To Win Friends and Influence People", "author": "Dale Carnegie"}

I consider my ability to arouse enthusiasm among my people the greatest asset I possess, and the way to develop the best that is in a person is by appreciation and encouragement. 

There is nothing else that so kills the ambitions of a person as criticisms from superiors. 

"Action seems to follow feeling, but really action and feeling go together; and by regulating the action, which is under the more direct control of the will, we can indirectly regulate the feeling, which is not"

"Everybody in the world is seeking happiness - and there is one sure way to find it. That is by controlling your thoughts. Happiness doesn't depend on outward conditions. It depends on inner conditions"

"Whenever you go out-of-doors, draw the chin in, carry the crown of the head high, and fill the lungs to the utmost; drink in the sunshine; greet your friends with a smile, and put soul into every handclasp... Preserve a right mental attitude- the attitude of courage, frankness, and good cheer. To think rightly is to create. All things come through desire and every sincere prayer is answered. We become like that on which our hearts are fixed"

"There is one all-important law of human conduct. If we obey that law, we shall almost never get into trouble. In fact, that law, if obeyed, will bring us countless friends and constant happiness. But the very instant we break the law, we shall get into endless trouble. This law is this: Always make the other person feel important. John Dewey, as we have already noted, said that the desire to be important is the deepest urge in human nature; and William James said: "the deepest principle in human nature is the craving to be appreciated." As I have already pointed out, it is this urge that has been responsible for civilization itself."

"I'm sorry to trouble you," or Would you be so kind as to ---?"

"A man convinced against his will, Is of the same opinion still"

"Men must be taught as if you taught them not, And things unknown proposed as things forgot"

"Be wiser than other people if you can; but do not tell them so"

"Scolding parents and domineering bosses and husbands and nagging wives ought to realize that people don't want to change their minds. They can't be forced or driven to agree with you or me. But they may possibly be led to, if we are gentle and friendly, ever so gentle and ever so friendly" 

"It is an old and true maxim that "a drop of honey catches more flies than a gallon of gall." So with men, if you would win a man to your cause, first convince him that you are his sincere friend. Therein is a drop of honey that catches his heart; which, say what you will, is the great high road to reason."

"Hearty in approbation and lavish in my praise"

"If you want enemies, excel your friend; but if you want friends, let your friends excel you"

"Now, when we have some time to chat, I ask them to share their joys with me, and I only mention my achievements when they ask - Let the other person do a great deal of the talking"

"by becoming interested in the cause, we are less likely to dislike the effect."

"success in dealing with people depends on a sympathetic grasp of the other person's viewpoint"

"Why should he or she want to do it?"

"think always in terms of the other person's point of view, and see things from that person's angle as well as your own"

"There, but for the grace of God, go I."

"I wanted to be above fools. So I resolved to try to turn her hostility into friendliness. It would be a challenge, a sort of game I could play." 168

"To whom have I the honor of speaking with?"

Impropriety : a failure to observe standards or show due honesty or modesty; improper language, behavior, or character.

Impertinent : not showing proper respect; rude.

"Appeal to the nobler motives."

"All men have fears, but the brave put down their fears and go forward, sometimes to death, but always to victory [...] What greater challenge can be offered than the opportunity to overcome those fears?"

"He [Frederic Herzberg] studied in depth the work attitudes of thousands of people ranging from factory workers to senior executives. What do you think he found to be the most motivating factor - the one facet of the jobs that was most stimulating? Money? Good working conditions? Fringe benefits? No - not any of those. The one major factor that motivated people was the work itself. If the work was exciting and interesting, the worker looked forward to doing it and was motivated to do a good job. That is what every successful person loves: the game. The chance for self-expression. The chance to prove his or her worth, to excel, to win. That is what makes footraces and hog-calling and pie-eating contests. The desire to excel. The desire for a feeling of importance" 189

(12 Principles){
	-The only way to get the best of an argumnet is to avoid it.
	-Show respect for the other person's opinions. Never say, "You're wrong."
	-If you are wrong, admit it quckly and emphatically.
	-Begin in a friendly way.
	-Get the other person saying "yes, yes" immediately.
	-Let the other person do a great deal of the talking
	-Let the other person feel that the idea is his or hers.
	-Try honestly to see things from the other person's point of view
	-Be sympathetic with the other person's ideas and desires.
	-Appeal to the nobler motives.
	-Dramatize your ideas.
	-Throw down a good challenge.
}

"Beginning with praise is like the dentist who begins his work with Novocain. The patient still gets a drilling, but the Novocain is pain-killing. A leader will use... Begin with a praise and honest appreciation."

"Asking questions not only makes an order more palatable; it often stimulates the creativity of the persons whom you ask. People are more likely to accept an order if they have had a part in the decision that caused the order to be issued."

"If you want to improve a person in a certain respect, act as though that particular trait were already one of his or her outstanding characteristics - 'Assume a virtue, if you have it not.' Give them a fine reputation to live up to, and they will make prodigious efforts rather than see you disillusioned."














